feat(tools): faucet tutorial (#26)
AshAvalanche/ash-docs: docs/tools/ansible-avalanche-collection/tutorials/subnet-faucet.md

---
sidebar_position: 7
---

# Subnet Faucet

> In this section, we will learn how to use the `ash.avalanche.faucet` role to deploy an [Avalanche Faucet](https://github.com/ava-labs/avalanche-faucet) for a Subnet.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this section, we will learn how to use the `ash.avalanche.faucet` role to deploy an [Avalanche Faucet](https://github.com/ava-labs/avalanche-faucet) for an EVM blockchain.
```

We should also have created a Subnet and a blockchain, see [Blockchain management](./blockchain-management) for details.
:::

## Requirements

The `ash.avalanche.faucet` role uses Docker and the `ash.avalanche.install_faucet_docker` installs Docker through the [geerlingguy.docker](https://galaxy.ansible.com/geerlingguy/docker).

We can make this role available locally with:

```bash
ansible-galaxy install -r ansible_collections/ash/avalanche/requirements.yml
```

## Configure the faucet

The Avalanche Faucet will be installed as a [Docker Compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/) service on the node targeted by the `faucet` Ansible group. In [Ansible Avalanche Getting Started](https://github.com/AshAvalanche/ansible-avalanche-getting-started), it is `validator01` by default. You can change this by editing the [`hosts`](https://github.com/AshAvalanche/ansible-avalanche-getting-started/blob/main/inventories/local/hosts) file.

> We need to let the Faucet know where to find our Subnet. To do this, let's add the following lines to the `group_vars` file associated with the hosts to add the `avalanche_faucet_config` variable. In our case it is [`faucet.yml`](https://github.com/AshAvalanche/ansible-avalanche-getting-started/tree/main/inventories/local/group_vars/faucet.yml):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We need to set the blockchain RPC endpoint using the `avalanche_faucet_config.subnet_rpc` variable. Let's modify [`faucet.yml`](https://github.com/AshAvalanche/ansible-avalanche-getting-started/tree/main/inventories/local/group_vars/faucet.yml) (the `group_vars` file associated with our hosts' group):
```

Author: Replaced with the new variable name `avalanche_faucet_chains`

```yaml
avalanche_faucet_config:
  subnet_rpc: http://192.168.60.11:9650/ext/bc/2qySivgXbE13Guu3icudmMj5HTnDiXnJHznLd22JZSWCCA3tbL/rpc
```

The blockchain ID (`2qySivgXbE13Guu3icudmMj5HTnDiXnJHznLd22JZSWCCA3tbL` in our case) should be the one created in the [Blockchain management](./blockchain-management) tutorial.

:::tip

> If you went through all the tutorials with the [`local`](https://github.com/AshAvalanche/ansible-avalanche-getting-started/tree/main/inventories/local) inventory and the default variables, you should be good to go! Otherwise, check out the other variables at XXX.

Reviewer: What does `XXX` means?

Author: Was meant to be a link, fixed

:::

## Install the faucet

Running the `ash.avalanche.install_faucet_docker` will install Docker and the docker-compose service:

```bash
ansible-playbook ash.avalanche.install_faucet_docker -i inventories/local
```

> The Faucet should then be available at <http://192.168.60.11:8000>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Faucet should then be available at [http://192.168.60.11:8000](http://192.168.60.11:8000)
```

<figure>

![Ash faucet](/img/ash-faucet.png)

<figcaption style={{textAlign: 'center'}}>Fig.1 - Ash faucet</figcaption>
</figure>

:::caution

> The `ash.avalanche.faucet` role is not yet compatible with SSL secured AvalancheGo API endpoints (see [Node security](./node-security) for details).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `ash.avalanche.faucet` role is not yet compatible with secured HTTP API endpoints (see [Node security](./node-security) for details).
```
